*Visualizing activities/malicious activities in a network using a graph database*

Network intrusion detection systems are going to generate alerts based on the
rules provided to it during its design, most of the alerts can be false-positive and
the data generated by it will also be restricted to a particular alert message. As a
result, multiple network log files from various sources must frequently be evaluated
in order to obtain the information needed to determine the threat’s severity.
However, there are many limitations while looking for relevant data in these log
files. All the log files can only be reviewed on their own using command-line tools.
Although employing a log management system enables searching across several
log files, no relationships between the data are generated. Although relational
databases may be used to construct these linkages, many join procedures are used
to join the tables often resulting in confusing and complicated database queries. If
there are any alerts generated it will be a challenging task for the network admin
to find out which alerts are true positives and which are false positives based on
generated alerts. It also takes a lot of time to analyze the entire log files finding
the source and sink of the attack.
So here I propose a new approach for monitoring the network log
files. We use graph database neo4j, using new approaches specified log files are
constantly checked for new log data, which is processed and loaded into the graph
database as soon as it occurs. We further test our graph data model by generating
log files from monitored network traffic in real time using the Zeek network security
monitor. we also show how graph databases can be utilized to analyze network
log files almost in real time. Neovis is used for visualizing the data present in
the graph database in form of nodes and relationships. We created a graph data
model for each log file to represent the data. We can also query the graph database
and Neovis to get details of a particular activity. We can visualize either the
alerts generated by the NIDS or the entire network to understand what is actually
happening in the network in real-time.
